#Learning Mixture of Gaussians with Streaming Data
This project is done by me, Ali Mortazavi and aminrashidbeigi.
#1. Abstract
In this project, we explore a theoretical paper published in Neurips2017 Conference titled Learning Mixture of Gaussians with Streaming Data by doing some experimental tests on the performance of the algorithm. You can find the original paper here.
The authors of the paper proposed an algorithm with a theoretical guarantee for the problem of clustering the streaming data points where data points come from a Mixture of Gaussian Distribution. In particular, they showed that with high probability, the algorithm eventually finds (/learns) the mixture of Gaussians accurately. Moreover, they showed that the learning rate is near-optimal. Meaning that in each step, the error decreases optimally. Note that, as the problem of learning the mixture of Gaussian is NP-Hard, they used a simplification assumption for the data to make the problem tractable. The simplification assumption they used is that data comes from a mixture of well-separated Gaussians. (i.e. the centers of any two clusters are far enough so that the algorithm can decide computationally easily whether the point belongs to the first cluster or the second one.)
Although the assumption allows them to have a good performance for this problem, one question might arise: Is the analysis of the paper tight?
One way to find an answer to this question is to test the algorithm's performance by running some experimental tests. Of course, the experimental tests just provide evidence and they are not proof.
